Background summary:
The targeted client for this portfolio is any potential publisher, employer who needs any variety of writing services, or literary enthusiast. The service is writing: poetry, essays, and short stories.
SWOTs:
Strengths: The portfolio offers a wide variety of writing samples.
Weaknesses: The portfolio lacks in client work; all work is personal, not professional.
Opportunities: The portfolio is styled in such a way that it showcases its potential and demonstrates room for growth.
Threats: Other competing portfolios may have a stronger client-writer relationship and consequently have more professional samples.
Overview:
The project is a writing portfolio that showcases different writing samples. I am designing a portfolio to demonstrate my versatility as a writer that may otherwise not be apparent through a traditional portfolio. This allows for an opportunity for clients to get a feel for my work and establish a better relationship with the writer.
Drivers:
The goal for this project is to efficiently and professionally advertise my writing. Additionally, the project should attract at least one client within its first three months of publication.
Audience:
The intended audience is those who are literary enthusiasts: people who enjoy reading poetry, fiction, and think pieces.
Competitors
The project’s competitors are other freelance writers who are showcasing their creative writing work. They are producing work consistently, something this project should work to do as well. It should also monitor niche writing, which allows for a more consistent audience base, a strength many competitors have.
Tone
The project should be communicating through its work; a minimalist approach is favored, as the words of the project should speak for themselves.
Message
The project is ‘saying’ it is open to broadening its clientele base. The message, as mentioned prior, should be made clear through the different types of writing available. The project’s audience should be taking away the idea that the writer is willing to work with them based on their needs.
Visuals
Visuals should be kept to a minimum, as not to distract from the written work.
Details
Details about the author will be included in one section of the project.
People
The work will be approved by clients, specifically publishers and those who are willing to work with the writer. Publishers should be kept up to date with the project’s progress by consistently and continuously creating and publishing new bodies of work.
